
        first name: Nicholas
        last name: Nakis
        title: True Born African
        time of submission: 2012-08-02 10:58:29
        
        short description: This film tells the story of Jamaican reggae legend Winston “Flames” Jarrett, from his upbringing in Kingston’s ghettoes to his musical success in the 1960s, globe-trotting reggae career, and relocation to Seattle, WA in the 2000s.  

        email: nic.nakis@gmail.com
        address: 5025A Ravenna Ave NE
        city: Seattle
        state: WA
        zip: 98105
        phone: 206-859-9372
        director first name: Nicholas
        director last name: Nakis
        additional directors: 
        producers: Nicholas John Nakis, Winston Jarrett, Patsy Jarrett

        synopsis: Our project is a feature-length documentary film about Winston "Flames" Jarrett. In the 1960s, as a backing vocalist for Alton Ellis & The Flames, Winston's voice graced several number-1 Ska hits in Jamaica.  He was also one of the first to record Rocksteady and Reggae in the 1960s and appeared as a background extra in the breakthrough Jamaican film "The Harder They Come".  Flames became leader of the band after Alton Ellis migrated to England.  As frontman of Winston Jarrett & the Righteous Flames, he was a mentor to the next generation of reggae musicians who took Jamaican music to worldwide popularity in the 1970s. He has recorded 20 albums in a music career spanning 6 decades. Flames now lives in Seattle, Washington.



In addition to uncovering the story of Winston's life in the Jamaican music scene, this film addresses his experience as an impoverished Trenchtown youth who rose to success and travelled around the world.  Now in his 70s, Winston "Flames" Jarrett is an elder of the Rastafari movement, a student of Nyahbinghi elder Mortimer Planno.  He discusses meeting H.I.M. Haile Selassie I in Jamaica in 1966, and describes the Ethiopian Emperor's lifelong influence upon him.   



The audience will meet Winston Jarrett and hear Winston's story in his own words through in-depth interviews, accompanied by footage of his live concerts over the years and video of Winston visiting his old stomping grounds in Jamaica.  They will be introduced to the history of Jamaica and the Rastafari movement through archival footage.  They will also meet some of Winston's friends and family, and hear dozens of beautiful songs recorded by Winston "Flames" Jarrett during Reggae's golden era.ccccc

        production description: Production on this film began in 2010, around the time of Winston Jarrett's 70th birthday.  During these two years, I have spent countless hours on research and had many long conversations with Winston "Flames" Jarrett.  We have already compiled over 14 hours of footage, mostly original video that we shot here in Seattle and in Jamaica.  



We filmed interviews with Winston in 2010 and spent much of 2011 tracking down loads of archival material, including older video interviews, live concert footage, photographs, album covers, and more.  The production team has put a lot of work into documenting several significant events, including:



- Winston Jarrett's 70th birthday concert in 2010

- The recording of his latest album in Seattle, 2011

- Winston's trip to Jamaica in 2012

- His live radio interview with KBCS radio in 2012

- The launch party for his new album "Family Affair", Seattle 2012.    



When I look at all that footage, I see some gaps.  For instance, there isn't much footage of a younger Winston, and there isn't much footage of important people from his life who can help tell his story.  Furthermore, all of the live footage we took for the documentary features Winston with a DJ in front of a small crowd, we are lacking footage of him with a full band and packed house.  



Fortunately, all of these problems are easy to solve.  We can locate more archival footage of Winston, film interviews with his friends and family, and try to get footage of him at one of the summer reggae festivals. Over the next few months we plan to film some new material, such as: 



- Follow-up interview with Winston in 2012

- Interview with his wife Patsy Jarrett

- Interview with former backing band, Dub Lounge International

- Footage of his live show at the Reggae on The River festival in July



We also need to track down the rights to some of our historic footage and locate the highest-quality versions of the clips.  There is also some footage from Culture Yard, a Seattle reggae promotion company that has put together a lot of Winston's Seattle shows.  Add to that all the footage from Winston's wife, Patsy Jarrett, and there is a mountain of archival footage that needs to be logged, digitized, and transcoded.    



Beyond the ongoing production requirements, the major hurdle that we now face is figuring out how to turn all this material into a cohesive 90 minute film.  Scripting and editing are the biggest challenges.  Winston's story spans 8 decades, nearly 60 years of which he's spent in the spotlight as a successful recording artist.  However, the majority of our footage is recent, a snapshot of the later days of Winston's career, in his 70s, living in Seattle.  



We're currently in the process of inventorying the footage, transcribing as necessary, scripting, and trying to assemble a story with natural narrative flow.  Once we have a rough cut of the film, we'd like to screen it for friends, family, and supporters to elicit their feedback.  After incorporating audience notes, we'll need to re-cut.  Once we're happy with the edit, we'll need to take it to a pro colorist for image correction, and spend some time at an audio post house for sound mixing and sweetening.  



  
        production timeline: August 2010 - Pre-production begins



September 2010 - Winston's 70th birthday concert, first interviews



October-December 2010 - Review footage, creative brainstorming



January-August 2011 - Transcribing, scripting, editing, compiling additional materials (photos, album covers, archival, historic, etc.)



September 2011 - Filming Winston in the studio as he works on his new album



October-December 2011 - Scripting, editing, compiling additional materials (photos, album covers, archival, historic, etc.)



January 2012 - Planning additional production in Jamaica



February 2012 - Kickstarter project launches



March 2012 - Kickstarter project succeeds, production travels to Jamaica to film 



April-May 2012 - Filming Winston's appearance on KBCS radio, and his album release party



June 2012 - Scripting and editing continues, applying for Northwest Film Fund grant



July 2012 - Film additional interviews, Reggae on the River festival, working with archival footage



August 2012 - Scripting and editing continues



September 2012 - Screen rough-cut of the film, re-edit, color correction, audio sweetening, release the film!




        
        artist statement: I am making this documentary because I love this music.  When I was a little boy, my Dad would play me his favorite reggae songs, including the soundtrack to The Harder They Come.  As a teenager, I rediscovered Jamaican music on my own.  My favorite stuff was the 60s and 70s tunes, such as the Alton Ellis material that Winston sang on, and that early 70s era when he went solo.  I knew Winston Jarrett's music 15 years before I knew him!  



In 2008, we met through some mutual acquaintances and have since developed a friendship.  On a visit to Winston's house in 2010, we hatched the idea of doing some kind of documentary together.  He wanted me to film his 70th birthday show at the Nectar Lounge and that's how it all began.  Through the process of editing that initial footage, I realized that this was a big story and it could use the support of archival material, B-roll, and additional interviews. 



Now that the production of this film has gone on for nearly 2 years, the project has gained a lot of momentum and started to take on a life of its own.  As other people contribute their talents and support, I am no longer making this film on my own.  The team now includes:



Executive Producers:  Perpetual Nakis, Shirley “Empress Irie Dawta” Atherley, Herman “Ta’ Zayah” Hendricks, Meghan Moore, Kapua Segool, Elinor Nakis, Arty Nakis, Connie Schauer, Shirley C. Jenkins, Ras Marcus Benjamin, Sheila Edgin, Diana Wright, Luc Hale, Troy Mabry, Isaac Kaplan-Woolner, Scott Bickford, Jonny Lagat Saragena, Liz, Angela Devlin, Paris Treantafeles, Culture Yard, Mary Ann Benedetto, James McEwan, Brian McKillop, Mike Commins, Chris Trent, Marion Adams Sai, Krk Nordenstrom, Pierre MacKay, Chani Hines, Travis Leva, Nathan Moody, Garrett Anderson, Antonio de la Torre, Jerica Green, Ben Rapson, Katie Johnson, Jim Summers, Daphne Ruxton, Ole Johnson, Annalisa Peterson, Charles Tomaras, Katarzyna, and Patrick Janicki



Producer/Subject: Winston “Flames” Jarrett



Producer/Director: Nicholas John Nakis



Co-Producer/Photographer/Videographer: Patsy Jarrett



Camera Operator: Anthony Tackett



Associate Producers: Patrick S. Poplin & Raynard Eskeets



The people listed as "Executive Producers" all contributed financially to the film by backing our project on Kickstarter.  If we receive a Northwest Film Fund grant, we will enthusiastically add Northwest Film Forum to the list!  



With this documentary, we hope to draw more attention to Winston Jarrett while he is still living.  Winston's story has taken place during the most tempestuous time of Jamaican history.  His commitment to music and the values of Rastafari culture kept him safe from street gangs and political violence, brought him prestige in the entertainment community, and allowed him to travel the world teaching a message of love.  We think this story is an inspiration to everyone, especially to those who are growing up in similar conditions to what he faced as a youth.  Through telling his story, we'd like to tell the story of a thousand ghetto youths who dreamed big.  Hopefully, this film will embolden his community and fill them with a sense of pride.  It will also bring him to greater notoriety in his twilight years, and educate people in the west about a part of the world that many know nothing about.    


        bio 1 Winston "Flames" Jarrett



Born in 1940 in Lime Tree Gardens, Saint Ann Parish, Jarrett grew up in the Jones Town area of Kingston after moving there with his mother at the age of five. There, he was taught to play guitar by Jimmy Cliff and Alton Ellis.  Jarrett's introduction to the music industry was as a member of Alton Ellis's backing band The Flames in the early 1960s. In 1967, Jarrett parted ways with the UK-bound Ellis and with fellow Flame Edgar "Egga" Gardner formed The Righteous Flames with Junior Green. In the 1970s, they were generally billed as 'Winston Jarrett and the Righteous Flames'. 



In the 1970s, tired of recording for others without receiving adequate payment, Jarrett self-produced much of his output, releasing it on his own Attra, Human Rights and Humble labels. Jarrett recorded as a solo artist in the late 1970s and 1980s.  



In the early 2000s, Winston moved to Seattle, Washington.   

        bio 2 Nicholas John Nakis



Raised in a treehouse in the foothills of the North Cascade mountains, my father was a fan of reggae music and often played the soundtrack of "The Harder They Come".  



After graduating from high school in 2000, I relocated to Seattle with a dream of becoming an independent filmmaker.  2001 was the year I got my first professional production gig on a TV commercial, and directed my first short films on actual film.  I worked professionally in film and video while attending college, completing a Bachelor of Arts in Business Administration at the University of Washington in 2006.  I also received a three-quarter Leadership Grant from the Mary Gates Endowment and used it to work on my student films.  



Over the past 11 years, I have worked on the crews of more than 100 professional motion picture projects.  Now, in 2012, I work as a freelance Producer and I've started to take on more gigs as a Director. 

        bio 3 
        
        bio 4: 


        funding narrative: When Winston and I began this project in 2010, we had absolutely no funding.  Our only resources were our own time and energy, as well as the archival material and classic recordings that Winston already had.  Lucky for us, one of my production clients owed me a pile of money, so I took out his cameras for free in lieu of interest.  We also got some volunteer assistance from a cameraman friend of mine.  This was how we were able to shoot some professional-quality material for free.  Winston's wife Patsy Jarrett also contributed her own creative ideas and loads of live concert footage that she'd shot over the years.  



Throughout 2011, we worked on the project as often as possible, still with no funding.  I was squeezing it in between client work, and having my interns put a lot of unpaid time into the project.  There were obviously some indirect costs, as I pulled resources away from my business, but there were still no direct costs and no direct funds for the project.  



At the beginning of 2012, we realized that there was still a lot of work to do and we would probably need some source of funding to see this through.  We ran a Kickstarter project in March 2012 and were able to raise roughly $3000.  The Kickstarter project provided enough money to send me down to Jamaica for a week to follow Winston and his friends.  This also helped pay my cameraman friend (Anthony Tackett) to do some extra work for us, paid for graphic design work, and t-shirts to promote the film and reward our Kickstarter backers.  There may also be enough money left from the Kickstarter fundraising to help us pay for the rights to some of the archival footage of Winston that we've found.  



Now we're faced with some major post-production work and we'll most likely need more funding to complete that.  Support from the Northwest Film Fund would certainly go a long way towards fulfilling those needs, but we will complete the film whether or not we receive extra funds.  One way or another, we'll make our movie.  I'm not sure if that counts as "a reasoning of how and why you can expect this production to obtain the resources it needs", but I am sure that we will approach these challenges with the same tenacity and persistence that Winston has applied to his music career. 
        
        funds secured: The Kickstarter campaign was able to raise $3053 in contributions.  After subtracting taxes and fees it comes to about $2700.  Those are the only funds that we have been able to secure so far.  

        distribution plan: We intend to release this film in several media formats, through as many distribution channels as possible.  Initially, we plan on a film festival release, followed by DVD and online distribution.  



There are thousands of great film festivals around the world, but we can only submit to a fraction of them.  The festivals that we're most interested in approaching are those that deal with Caribbean subject matter, Reggae music, and documentaries.  We've already been approached by a Reggae film festival in the UK that is interested in screening the film.  Of course, we'll also apply to all the Seattle festivals, such as Seattle International Film Festival.  



Hopefully, our festival screenings will garner enough interest to secure a distribution deal.  Failing that, we will distribute the film ourselves.  We have a DVD duplication and packaging company here in Seattle that will help us to create our own products.  Then we will be able to sell DVDs directly to fans through the internet and the merchandise table at Winston's shows.  There are also several great video stores still hanging in there (such as Scarecrow Video in Seattle), we plan to sell directly to them.  In addition, those same Reggae music distributors who place new music in record stores also distribute Reggae DVDs.  We intend to distribute through this network as well.     



We can't forget the internet.  With our own website, we will be able to offer pay-per-view and pay-to-download, as well as selling physical DVDs.  There are also some great online video sites who often distribute independent documentaries, such as NetFlix, Hulu, and YouTube Movies.    



In addition to film festivals, DVDs, and the internet, we also have the option of pursuing other distribution channels such as in-flight entertainment and cable TV networks.  
        
        budget: This began as a no-budget film, and we are still operating that way for the most part.  However, we were able to secure some funds through Kickstarter that have been used to pay for:



A trip to Jamaica to film Winston's visit in early 2012 -  approx. $1500



Hiring a cameraman to film the CD release party - $100 



Hiring a graphic designer to design our t-shirts - $50



Purchasing the t-shirts and screen printing - $500



Hiring a professional cameraman to film Winston’s performance at the Reggae on the River festival in California - $250



Purchasing a harddrive to store the project media - $200





In order to see the film through, there will be some further expenses.  



Licensing archival footage - $unknown



Having a professional editor help with the final cut of the film - $unknown



Professional color correction - $unknown



Sound mix and sweetening - $unknown 



Film prints for festivals - $unknown



DVDs - $unknown





At this point, we don't know how much these things will cost.  We've requested a price for licensing the archival footage, but have yet to receive a response.  We have a lot of connections with post-production folks here in Seattle, and I'm sure we'll get some sweetheart deals from them, but at this point we don't know what that work will actually cost us.  Film prints are a new undertaking for us.  Some festivals will probably require prints, but we don't know how expensive they will be.  As for DVDs, we may only need to make a few screeners for festival submissions, but we might end up making thousands to self-distribute.  At this point, that is also an unknown cost.  







        work sample 1 title: Kickstarter video
        trt: 00:04:43
        description: This was the Kickstarter video for "True Born African", edited by Nicholas John Nakis.  It features some of the material we shot in 2010 as well as some archival material.  We used this video to present the project to potential backers during our successful Kickstarter campaign.  
        link: http://youtu.be/Imuk_9rJsvA
        work sample provided on DVD? no

        work sample 2 title: Teeter Hangups TV commercial
        trt: 00:02:15
        description: This is one of the TV commercials produced by Nicholas John Nakis, intended as a professional work sample.  This commercial still airs nationally in a slightly re-edited version.  
        link: http://youtu.be/QiXuF0geBAo
        work sample provided on DVD? no

        work sample 3 title: Winston Jarrett preview clip
        trt: 00:04:22
        description: This is a clip we cut together in 2011 to introduce people to the project, almost like a film trailer.  Edited by Nicholas John Nakis, this features excerpts from the 2010 footage. 
        link: http://youtu.be/_zbX6gE8bUE
        work sample provided on DVD? no






