
        first name: Gabriel
        last name: Miller
        title: Aurora Stories
        time of submission: 2012-08-02 11:16:45
        
        short description: AURORA STORIES portrays three women fighting the twin trap of street prostitution and heroin addiction, and a man who invites them to kick drugs in his RV.

        email: gabriel.miller@kindredmedia.com
        address: 5508 20th Avenue South
        city: Seattle
        state: WA
        zip: 98108
        phone: 2069493375
        director first name: Gabriel 
        director last name: Miller
        additional directors: Elisa Haradon
        producers: Elisa Haradon, Gabriel Miller

        synopsis: In every major city there exists a "blade"--a roadway that serves as a feeding ground for vice. Women walk it nightly, selling their bodies for heroin. The initial weeks of euphoria quickly turn to full blown addiction; soon they must dose regularly to avoid excruciating withdrawal symptoms. In AURORA STORIES, three of these women struggle to survive, and to determine if survival means getting their next fix or breaking free from the trap their life has become.



Seattle's Blade, the notorious Highway 99 (Aurora Avenue) cuts through the city from North to South. A major Seattle artery, thousands depend on it for their daily commute, yet you won’t find it in the tour books. Rife with drugs, prostitution and violence, Aurora continues to vex city officials despite repeated efforts at gentrification.



Tucked on the side of the highway up by the Saint Vincent De Paul Thrift Store sits a nondescript motor home most wouldn’t give a second glance. Through its door lies a warm, welcoming world where heroin-addicted prostitutes take refuge from the cruelties of the Blade. Inside, these women are sisters, girlfriends, mothers, daughters, lovers. They are somebody. They stop in to warm up, have a meal, kid around, check their makeup, shoot up, get medical attention, or just to call their dealers before they head back out on the street. Some stay for a few minutes, others for days.



Tammy is a 34-year-old prostitute who’s been addicted to heroin since age 12. Her stormy eyes flash and her mood changes. Tammy’s parents can’t accept the way she lives, yet they rely on her to cover their expenses. Years of heroin use are now causing bacterial infections that might cost her a limb, or even her life. Still, she can’t leave the streets.



Sara comes from in a well-to-do household in the suburbs. After an injury years ago she became addicted to painkillers. When her doctor cut her off, she turned to heroin and ended up on Aurora. Sara longs to see her children again but heroin dominates her life. She needs to use daily to “get well,” or just feel normal, but she has grown sick of being sick, and is ready to face withdrawal to get her life back.  



Kristine is a congenial, highly intelligent woman with a disarming smile. She studies Aramaic and high level math recreationally, yet she’s also been on America’s Most Wanted. After years on Aurora, Kristine successfully kicked heroin, became a highly skilled welder, and lived drug-free. After being laid off, Kristine returns to prostitution to pay her rent. Back on the streets and depressed, she starts using again, but, with her defining tenacity, she picks up the fight all over again.



Tammy, Sara, and Kristine live their lives on the edge of the Blade. They are bound by their connection to Gray Cloud, the RV's owner, who opens his home to them. He is a noticeable character, with long grey hair and a slightly wicked smile. He has called the Blade home for 13 years. Dubbed “Mayor of Aurora” by local businesses, harassed by police, he actually lives a fairly stable existence. Unlike most of the locals, he is not plagued by drug addiction and can devote himself to living as he chooses, surrounded by these women from the streets, his girlfriends.



Gray Cloud offers sympathy, the comforts his home provides, and help when women are ready to fight their addiction. With 24-hour attention and a smattering of medical knowledge, he has helped more than 20 women try to kick. But his giving is not unconditional--his relentless sexual advances have the women who come to his door making their own calculations of cost and benefit.  



Gray Cloud's RV serves as the perfect stage, with a constant influx of dramatic, often tragic, comings and goings, as the women's lives are constantly in flux. Kristine, Tammy, and Sarah live everyday with danger and pain, but they never cease to struggle. With AURORA STORIES, we provide a window into a microcosm with a set of rules all its own.

        production description: AURORA STORIES is well into the shooting phase, with crucial pre-production work already completed, and editing yet to begin.  



Producer/Co-Director Elisa Haradon spent time in 2010 and 2011 researching and exploring Aurora Avenue and the lives that unfold there. She talked to countless people who spend their days or nights along Aurora and eventually zeroed in on a number of heroin addicted prostitutes and a man they all know nicknamed Gray Cloud.  Persistence, open-mindedness, frankness and sensitivity were key to establishing relationships with the documentary subjects, and a thoughtful selection process laid the ground for production.  



In late 2011, Elisa Haradon and Co-Director/Director of Photography Gabriel Miller established a collaboration and began shooting. Shooting out of necessity in small spaces with limited light, and the desire to produce a film driven by Cinema Verite scenes required that the production crew be limited to the two directors, and the use of a relatively compact, light sensitive HD camera, the Sony FS-100, and multiple wireless microphones. Regular filming with subjects has allowed them to get comfortable with the presence of the camera and crew, and by relating with care to the subjects, they generally behave with a high degree of openness and honesty. Filming is approximately half complete and with resources and an intensified approach, filming will be complete within six months.  



Regular check-ins with subjects have allowed key story points to be captured as they unfold, and have allowed for good relationships with the subjects. Maintaining relationships with secondary subjects allows for the possibility of discovering additional and alternative storylines. The chaotic lives of the documentary subjects produce no shortage of drama, but being aware of the stories that are unfolding, and maintaining connection to multiple story lines allows the co-directors to shape the film and select meaningful content.   



Because the film is only about half shot, post production work has just begun, with some logging and interview transcription complete. Elisa Haradon will be editor for the film, with input from a consulting editor.  



Editing of individual scenes will begin shortly, as part of the overall edit, but also to confirm the effectiveness of story choices. The intensive phase of editing will begin toward the completion of filming. Rough cut screenings will be held for invited audiences for feedback before finalizing the edit.  



Support from post houses would be highly valuable for the final steps of color correction and sound mix. With this help from the grant, the filmmakers could spend less time fundraising and focus more intensively on shooting and editing.  



Hurdles include:

-Establishing trust with subjects--done

-Legal jeopardy for subjects--We are consulting with MTV “True Life” (a client of Gabriel Miller's) and an attorney - minimal risk. We have been advised to have clear and open conversations with our subjects. We require an understanding of our characters motivations for being in the film and periodically film these conversations. Most subjects see the potential to help others by participating.



 


        production timeline: October 2011 – Shooting Began

August 2012 – Preliminary Editing Begins

March 2013 – Shooting Wraps

January 2013 -- Intensive Editing Begins

April 2013 -- Music Composition

June 2013 – Rough Cut Completion

August 2013 – FINE CUT COMPLETE
        
        artist statement: Both of us have long been drawn to documentary film, specifically Cinema Verite in the vein of The Maysles Brothers, Allan King, Frederick Wiseman, Joe Berlinger, Bruce Sinofsky, Chris Marker, and Barbara Koppel. We gravitate to capturing intimate personal moments that open a window into the lives of underrepresented “invisible” communities such as the women on Aurora Avenue.  



We aspire to create important work that will affect people on a number of levels, and will mean different things to different audiences. By striving to leave our personal opinions out of the film, we will challenge the audience to make up their own minds about what they see. Ultimately we hope that our film will provoke people to examine themselves and their own motivations, as our story on its most basic level is simply one about human nature. We hope it will be something that audiences carry with them long after viewing, whether it moves them to become involved in social change or just changes the way they think in some way.



Stylistically in this project, we are excited by creating longer scenes which immerse you in a moment, and grittier rather than slick, polished production.



Our collaboration process leaves room for disagreement, and we often challenge each other, even playing devil’s advocate to ensure we are creating the best work we can and telling the stories accurately. Our film will greatly benefit from this back and forth and are learning tremendously by this process, which will enhance both our Creative and career growth.



Additionally, we both have friends or family members who we have lost to opiate addiction.



Why now? Heroin use is epidemic and on the rise after concerted government and medical industry efforts to limit prescription medication  (such as Oxycodone and Percoset) abuse, many former pharmaceutical addicts have switched to heroin and the market has responded with greater supply and potency of heroin.  



The potency of heroin has grown stronger, causing withdrawal to be more difficult. The current available options, at least to the population we are documenting, are not working.



This film needs to be made now while we have this unique access to a closed world -- the lives and deaths of our subjects are unpredictable--the RV and these women might not be there next year, or even next month.



We hope that an unflinching look at these problems can help others try to address them with a more nuanced and appropriate approach.  


        bio 1 GABRIEL MILLER is a cinematographer, director and producer. He studied film at Bard College and began his professional career in NYC. Gabriel has worked with a number of the great documentary directors of our time, including Academy Award winners Barbara Kopple and Cynthia Wade, Academy Award nominees Heidi Ewing and Rachel Grady, Emmy winners Rory Kennedy and Liz Garbus, and acclaimed director Judith Helfand. Productions he has worked on have been broadcast on HBO, CBS, ABC, the BBC, the Sundance Channel, MTV, Discovery, A&E, and Arte.



Gabriel won a regional Emmy for his portrait of artist Pearl Nelson in the Seattle Channel series, VERVE, which he co-created and was DP for.  The series was a featured selection at iTunes for the month it premiered.



Recent work includes shooting and producing for MTV’s TRUE LIFE series, and DP for WONDER WOMEN!, which premiered at SXSW and will air on PBS in 2013

        bio 2 ELISA HARADON has a passion for offbeat and controversial documentary subjects. Elisa worked as the Assistant Editor and Head Researcher on Robinson Devor's documentary ZOO about the Enumclaw, Washington bestiality ring. The film went on to play Sundance and Cannes. She and her husband Zeb made WAITING FOR NESARA, a documentary about The Open Mind Forum, a messianic group of Salt Lake City ex-Mormons, and the radical faith that bound them together in the wake of 9/11. The film played a number of festivals around the world and is used as part of the curriculum on cults and religions in several educational institutions. Elisa has designed marketing materials for many films, including GRASSROOTS, ZOO, and THE IMMACULATE CONCEPTION OF LITTLE DIZZLE. She is a member of NW Film Forum and Women in Film. 

        bio 3 
        
        bio 4: 


        funding narrative: We will be pursuing a number of funding opportunities in addition to the Northwest Film Fund. We are applying for fiscal sponsorship through the Northwest Film Forum, to be eligible for funding sources that require a non-profit to receive funds.  



We plan to use Kickstarter to further help fund our project, connecting with our personal and professional social networks, film communities and social justice minded individuals.  



We plan to apply for grants and support from the Pacific Pioneer Fund, Creative Capital, 4Culture, Chicken & Egg, City of Seattle, Independent Lens, ITVS, POV, Ford Foundation’s JustFilms, Sundance Institute Documentary Fund, Women In Film Foundation's Film Finishing Fund and the Gucci Tribeca Documentary Fund.  



As elaborated in our budget below, our total cash estimated costs are $63,950. Here is a breakdown of how we expect to raise these funds:

NW Film Fund:  $10,000

Kickstarter: $5,000

Individual Donors: $7,950 ($2000 already raised)

Grants: $41,000

TOTAL: 63,950
        
        funds secured: We decided to use our own time, resources, and gear to get to the point where it was possible to create a work sample. Our current state of production allows us to produce compelling samples which will make fundraising more efficient than it could have been at an earlier date.   To date we have received $2,000 from an individual donor but are just now beginning to pursue grants. 

        distribution plan: Upon completion,  the filmmakers will seek an intense festival run, applying to Sundance, IDFA, Toronto, Hot Docs, Sheffield, Doc/Fest, Berlin,  Silverdocs, Tribeca, SXSW, Los Angeles, True/False, and Full Frame with an attempt to premiere at a top-tier festival.  The filmmakers will seek representation for publicizing and sale of the film.  In addition to reaching significant audiences at the festival circuit, the goal will be to make a deal for a national broadcast of the film, in the wake of festival screenings.  



Gabriel has worked on many documentaries that have gotten national broadcast, so we will be consulting with colleagues for advice on pursuing broadcast opportunities at HBO and Showtime. We may also pursue PBS. 



Social service agencies, women’s advocacy organizations, and drug treatment organizations will be approached to seek opportunities to use the film to illuminate the issues of street life, prostitution, and addiction.  
        
        budget: PERSONNEL (Above the Line) COSTS						

						

Co-Director/Producer E. Haradon	 

150 days @$350 = $39,375 in kind* and $13,125 cash 	



Producer/Director of Photography Gabriel Miller	

150 days @$350 = $39,375 in kind and $13,125 cash 

						

TOTAL FULL PROJECT  PERSONNEL	$105,000 in kind* and $26,250 cash	

						



PRODUCTION COSTS

						

Equipment						

Camera/Lighting/Sound Package 	

70 days @ $400		$28,000 in kind from filmmakers



Additional Equipment (lenses, specialty camera mounts, effect camera)		

$750 cash



Incidental Shoot day Expenses (meals for subjects, parking, etc)	

$700 cash		

								

TOTAL PRODUCTION	

$1,450 cash	$28,000	in kind*

						



COMPLETION/POST-PRODUCTION	

										

Editor-Elisa Haradon	24 5-day weeks @ $1,750 = $31,500 in kind* and $10,500.00 cash 



Consulting Editor	4 5-day weeks @ $2,500 = $10,000 cash		

Color Correction	part of NW Fund Grant

Music Composer/Rights	1 allow of $5,000 = $5,000 cash		

						

Total Personnel				$25,500 cash

						

Editing/Completion						

Transcribing	300 pages @ $6 = $1,800		

Editing Supplies (drives, etc.)	1 allow	$200	$200		

Sound Edit	        part of NW Fund Grant

Sound Mix & Layback	part of NW Fund Grant

Storage Media		1 allow	@ $750 = $750		

						

Total Editing/Completion	$2,750 cash	

						

			TOTAL COMPLETION/POST-PRODUCTION	$28,250 cash	

						

ADMINISTRATIVE & OFFICE EXPENSES 						

						

Entertainment Attorney	 1 allow @ $8,000 = $8,000 (amount reduced  based on partial payment from NW Fund Grant)



Errors and Ommissions Insurance = amount TBD			

(this cost will be necessary at the point of a broadcast and cost can be covered by fee from broadcaster)

						

						

TOTAL ADMINISTRATIVE & OFFICE EXPENSES 	$8,000		

						

						

						

						

						

					Cash:	     In Kind:

    TOTAL FULL PROJECT PERSONNEL	$26,250      $105,000.00	

		TOTAL PRODUCTION	$1,450       $28,000	

TOTAL COMPLETION/POST-PRODUCTION	$28,250      $31,500.00	

   TOTAL ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES	$8,000       $0.00	

						

			TOTAL  COSTS	$63,950	$164,500.00	







* Filmmaker discounts or personal contribution





        work sample 1 title: AURORA STORIES preliminary trailer
        trt: 6:23
        description: Vimeo Password: sylvester



AURORA STORIES portrays three women fighting the twin-trap of street prostitution and heroin addiction, and a man who invites them to kick drugs in his RV.
        link: https://vimeo.com/46520248
        work sample provided on DVD? no

        work sample 2 title: WONDER WOMEN! 
        trt: 4:01
        description: WONDER WOMEN! THE UNTOLD STORY OF AMERICAN SUPERHEROINES traces the fascinating evolution and legacy of Wonder Woman. From the birth of the comic book superheroine in the 1940s to the blockbusters of today, WONDER WOMEN! looks at how popular representations of powerful women often reflect society’s anxieties about women’s liberation.WONDER WOMEN! goes behind the scenes with Lynda Carter, Lindsay Wagner, comic writers and artists, and real-life superheroines such as Gloria Steinem, Kathleen Hanna and others, who offer an enlightening and entertaining counterpoint to the male-dominated superhero genre. WONDER WOMEN premiered at SXSW and will air on PBS in 2013. (Gabriel Miller - Director of Photography) 
        link: https://vimeo.com/36060144 
        work sample provided on DVD? no

        work sample 3 title: LaPrell Nelson, aka Pearl Dragon - Portrait o
        trt: 4:58
        description: Emmy Award winning piece on Pearl Nelson. 



Director and Co-Producer: Gabriel Miller

Director of Photography: Gabriel Miller
        link: https://vimeo.com/13895971
        work sample provided on DVD? no






